### Title

Spectroscopy Development Busy Week

### Project Team

Kyle Westfall (UCO), Tim Pickering (MMT), Kelle Cruz (Hunter), Debora
Pelliccia (UCO), Ricky O'Steen (STScI), Camilla Pacifici (STScI),
Timothy Ellsworth-Bowers (Lowell), Stephanie Juneau (NOIRLab), [others
welcome!]

### Project Description

In Nov 2023, we held a workshop at NOIRLab to discuss spectroscopy
software, identify needs, and begin projects to address them; see our
[report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/10i3VXiQE2AUF7EVSJ8-jm1nTMaRhudYUVq409b3daOo/edit?usp=sharing).

Since then, we've held monthly meetings where we continue the discussion
and touch base on progress in an effort to maintain momentum.  Although
this effort has led to a number of specutils/specreduce PRs (both at the
workshop and since), it remains difficult for us as a group to find time
to make significant progress on the development goals we identified.
Here, we propose to provide travel support for the attendees of one busy
week, focused on final development pushes toward specutils/specreduce
PRs.  The idea is that, instead of funding small fractions of an FTE for
a few people, we can support short bursts of collective effort from many
people.  These efforts will directly support development priorities in
specutils and specreduce.

### Project / Work

The specific deliverables of this busy week are currently TBD.
Possibilities include:

 - Comparison of multiple wavelength-calibration algorithms pulled
   existing pipelines (DRAGONS, BANZAI, pypeit), and incorporated into
   specreduce.
 
 - Similar work can be done for other algorithms, including sky
   subtraction, source extraction, coadding, flux calibration, etc.

 - End-to-end example reduction performed using specreduce with a
   long-slit dataset

 - Addition of algorithms specific to fiber-based spectrographs

Significant planning will go into the timing of the workshop and each
development goal.  We expect to support 4-6 groups of 3-5 people each,
with each group having a specific deliverable that can reasonably be
achieved during the busy week.  Broader discussions about priorities and
longer terms goals are inevitable, but the focus of the week will be to
complete a goal that directly benefits from a focused collective effort.

Comments and advice on how to actually achieve the above are welcome!

### Approximate Budget

At minimum, the budget should support catering for lunches and coffee
breaks during the busy week.  A rough estimate is $4000, assuming ~$40
per person per day for 20 attendess and a 5-day busy week.  In this
minimum funding scenario, all attendees would be reimbursed for their
other meals (breakfast, dinner), hotel, and airfare by their home
institutions.

At maximum, the budget would additionally provide full travel support
for the attendees (airfare, hotel, meals).  A rough estimate is $60k,
assuming $3000 per person for a 5-day busy week and a US-domestic flight
for 20 attendees.

The budget therefore ranges from $4k - $64k.

The extent of this range largely depends on the number of attendees and
the level of travel reimbursement provided.  Note that I haven't
included venue rental fees in this estimate, under the assumption that
the busy week can be hosted at someone's home institution at no cost
(e.g., we could host it at UCO/UCSC in Santa Cruz).

### Period of Performance

This budget request is for a single 1 week meeting to happen within the
year following when the project is approved.


